Israeli officials say three people have
been killed in a shooting attack at a
border crossing between the Israeli
occupied West Bank and Jordan Israel's
military says a gunman approached the
alambi Bridge border crossing from the
Jordanian side in a truck and open fire
at security forces who killed the asent
in a shootout three Israeli civilian
guards were killed at the Crossing which
is also known as the king Hussein Bridge
Crossing Jordan's interior Ministry says
it is investigating the
shooting Jordan made peace with Israel
in 1994 but is fiercely critical of its
policies towards the Palestinians more
than half of Jordanian citizens are of
Palestinian descent and many still have
family ties to people in the occupied
West Bank or
Gaza and for more I can now talk to
Emily gordine who is joining us in
Jerusalem Emily uh what more can you
tell us about uh what happened at the
king Hussein uh Bridge
Crossing yes so the IDF has said that a
gunman approached the Crossing in a
truck from the Jordanian side and opened
fire at uh border officials their
Israeli border officials and security
forces then responded and killed the
attacker in a shootout um now Jordan has
responded by saying that it is
investigating the incident and like we
just heard um Jordan and we need to
remember this Jordan has made peace with
Israel and in in 1994 and um over the
past few months it has helped Israel
fending off drone attacks by Iran um and
at the same time we also know that um it
has been very critical of um Israel's
policies uh towards
Palestinians um and back to this attack
to at where the incident actually
happened now this um incident happened
at a Crossing that connects the occupied
West Bank with Jordan and in the
occupied West Bank we have seen a surge
in violence since the start of the war
in Gaza that was triggered by um hamas's
terror attack on Israel on October 7
last year and um we've seen ever since
we've seen um almost daily milit Israeli
military ra raids in densely populated
Palestinian residential areas we've seen
an increase in settler violence but
we've also seen an increase in
Palestinian attacks towards Israelis and
observers are very concerned that in the
absence of a ceasefire deal the violence
there could escalate even
further uh and of course what we've also
been seeing is uh more and more protests
in Israel with people demanding a
ceasefire deal and the release of the
remaining hostages uh what's the
response of the Israeli government to
that well yesterday for example we saw
it was the eighth consecutive day of of
mass protests in Israel in um Tel Aviv
alone we saw about 400,000 people take
to the streets uh demanding a ceasefire
demanding the release of the hostages um
they have been accusing Benjamin
Netanyahu Israel's prime minister of
abandoning the hostages for political
reasons um so he can uh keep his
Coalition together and safegard his own
political survival now what you need to
know here is that um some of his cabinet
members too in particular Israel's
national security minister itamar benir
and Finance Minister pezel smotrich have
both spoken out against uh a SE fire
deal and they are also putting immense
pressure on Benjamin Netanyahu um and
that is causing a lot of frustration
among many protesters and that's why
they keep coming to the streets keep
going to the streets and at the same
time it seems um that it has very little
effect on Benjamin Netanyahu and his
government all right Emily gordin thank
thank you so very much